Ladies and gentlemen, we have
a habit of
dwelling on our own suffering, and
we even nurture that
suffering. For example, if we are upset about
something, when we meet
a friend, we only tell them about it. And for some
reason, our friend might offer words of
sympathy or understanding, which
might not
lessen our sadness but rather intensify it. Then there are the unpleasant
things, the
things that cause us suffering—even in
very close relationships, like
with parents,
spouses, or children.
When we
share our problems, they often
agree with our thoughts. For instance, if we have a disagreement
with our
husband, we might immediately receive
words of sympathy, which could lead to speaking ill of him.
Wanting sympathy means
speaking ill of one's wife, and therefore
our suffering increases.
This habit causes
us to perceive everything around us as
suffering,
not joy. We
need to change this. That is, we should always
see joy within ourselves,
find joy within ourselves every
day, and share
that joy. In our hearts, we
will grow in cheerfulness and joy, and
our minds will be
purified, learning to let go of
suffering very quickly. We will always have
positive thoughts, and that
is the medicine for our
health. It is the
medicine that makes us happy with
everyone around us very
quickly, thus
developing our
cheerfulness and increasing our
positive communication skills.
Therefore, we  Therefore, we should develop
all our positive abilities
by feeling happiness every day.
Dear
esteemed audience, let me give you an example. Imagine you feel a
very
cool breeze. You feel it because at that moment you
feel happiness. You
feel it for a long time, and
then you go to
someone else and, habitually,
tell them, "I just felt
a very cool and pleasant breeze."
That feeling of happiness will be transmitted
to others, and they
will share their happiness
with you instead of your suffering. They will
also share
their suffering energy with you. Thus,
our interaction will
completely carry the energy of
suffering, and in our hearts, we
will always feel suffering. So
now, we must find out what happiness
is. We must understand what happiness is.  What constitutes
happiness is the feeling we have of
happiness in this world.
This worldly happiness is the feeling of enjoyment we experience.
For example, in love, two people in love experience
enjoyment, meaning they receive attention and care from
their partner. That's what makes
them happy. And
that happiness is a feeling in the
heart. Even if we have a lot of money, if we
don't feel comfortable in our hearts,
we won't experience
happiness, right? No matter how much we have, if we
feel it's not enough, if we're not
comfortable, then even with money,
we won't experience happiness or feel happy.
Therefore, many people forget
that
happiness comes from the feeling of
happiness. We forget
that money will make us
happy, material things will...
We think that success and career achievements will make us happy,
and we seek happiness through
those things. But we don't feel happy at all.
We don't experience happiness
because when we have power,
that power escalates, and within that power, there's
struggle, and
we never truly feel
happy. Money is the same; the
more money we have, the more we crave.
From that
money, we can create all sorts of
problems, sometimes even leading to negative consequences.
For example, with money, we indulge in debauchery; with money,
spouses
think about many things, like spending money on
themselves, sometimes
neglecting the family, sometimes having affairs.
Therefore,
people don't feel
happy. True happiness is a feeling of peace and
tranquility in the heart.
That is the feeling of happiness. (
Sharing this with a peaceful mind)  Ladies
and gentlemen, regarding those moments of inner
peace and mindfulness,
as someone who practices meditation, I have
experienced many feelings of happiness
during my practice.
However, when we live in the secular world,
we also have many moments of
happiness, but because we haven't yet
understood where happiness comes from
and what it feels like,
we don't recognize it.
Therefore, we search for happiness
incorrectly, and that brings
us
suffering. Material things are essential to
human beings; everything is necessary.
But if we don't know how to use
material things to bring happiness,
we will be
tormented by them. Sometimes,
people live their whole lives
saying, "In this life, I have
never felt happiness,"
yet in reality, we
have so many things that bring happiness, but because
we don't pay attention to them,
we don't enjoy them, we don't appreciate them.
Those who are forever hungry for
happiness, whose minds are in harmony with Buddhism, are called the Four
Noble Truths:
preventing evil, eradicating evil,
generating good, and increasing
good. They must prevent the arising of unwholesome states,
eradicate those already arising, generate wholesome states, and cultivate
wholesome states. Their minds are in harmony with the Dharma. Let's return to the
example: Imagine you have a
problem with
your spouse and you tell a friend about it.
The initial
thought is that you
want your friend to say
you are
right and your spouse is
wrong. At first, there might be a right
or a wrong person; for example, that's the
starting point. But
because of that desire,
you tell your friend, and then they
'll say your spouse is
wrong, making it
six. That's when you feel satisfied. And
because it becomes six, you've already
suffered enough with five, and now it
becomes six, which is naturally...  We
have to suffer more.
But if we know how to
apply this daily feeling of happiness,
then whatever happiness our spouse brings us each day,
we will multiply it. For example, if my husband, wife, or
lover gives me something
joyful, I tell my friend, and
in this way, my friend will awaken
the happiness in their heart.
Sometimes, my friend will share the
happiness they
feel from their lover or
husband with me. And so, each
time we tell each other
about the happiness we
have from our spouse, the next time if
there is a mistake by the husband or wife, it will be
much easier to forgive it because the
happiness we feel from each other is
so great, and this mistake is so small.
We also carry that sadness with us, and
we can tell our friend,
because we've told so many happy things, that our friend
will say, "He's
so good," or "He's so good."
Today there was a mistake.  Let's just overlook a little bit. Is it
easy to overlook things? It's very easy to
overlook things. And in this life, there are
many things
that make us happy. That's
just one example, the example of a husband and wife.
Now, let's consider a dog. We
have a dog or a cat,
right? When we come home, it might greet us,
and when we
feel happy, we
look at it. Because we
look at it, we are feeling
happiness, and our
love for the
dog or cat will
increase. So, if the dog or cat defecates
inappropriately, we won't hit it. It's the same with
all things.
The more we cultivate love for the things outside ourselves, the
greater the happiness we will feel.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is the
purpose of the Hoan Quan mantra: to help
you all find happiness every day.
For Buddhists, there are many
things that bring happiness.  In the midst of
our daily achievements, let's
write down
our happiness, even the
smallest things. Even the smallest things,
we must practice making
ourselves happy, become accustomed to the food of
happiness, become accustomed to feelings of
happiness. Let's write down even the
smallest things. Let's write them in the group, and
everyone will share that
happiness with each other. In this way, we will
multiply the feelings of happiness, and
our lives
will be filled with more happiness because it's the
cause and effect of cultivating a higher
mind, which brings us peace. In
this way, we will see the good things in all our colleagues and
relationships, and we will all
feel the good things they
give us, even the smallest things. When our hearts are
joyful towards them, our way of interacting with
them will change, and they will also
feel our joyful heart. When we
approach them with a joyful and happy heart, they
will also approach us with a joyful and happy heart.
In Buddhism, this is called...  The principle of cultivating the mind
is that if your heart is joyful, you will
inspire joy in those around you. If your heart
is filled with anger, you will stir up
anger in those around you.
This is called cultivating the mind, and it
will bring practical benefits
in daily life. For example, in a
family, if you have a
young child and you are always happy with them,
your joy will spread to your
husband, and the family will be happier.
But if you
only scold your
child, that
will make your husband
hate your child even
more, and this will lead to
negative consequences later on, and the family will never be
happy.
Uncle Hoan Quan will stop sharing
here
and will continue in
future videos, sharing the
smallest ways and sources of happiness so that you
can feel happiness in
your daily lives.
Goodbye and see you
again.